---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-03-28T17:13:19.855Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-28T17:13:04.389Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-28-a42bfa9d-8388-4e7a-a6ee-11f389881c02.md
published: true
url: a42bfa9d-8388-4e7a-a6ee-11f389881c02/index.html
_type: Article

---
Ozone Therapy, Colonics: The Straight Path?

I had an interesting experience yesterday. A do-it-yourself high colonic on a high-tech molded table in, where else? Marin County. 

Why? Because my immune function is dysregulated, I can't tolerate most foods, I'm exhausted most of the time, and I hear that a poorly functioning or backed-up gut can put a lot of strain on your liver.

Right now, I need my liver.

My liver and I, we have a lot to do these days.

So I went to a place called [Cleanse Marin][0] where Grace, the perfect person to be doing this, takes a payment of $150 bucks for the first session, and cheerfully and empathically takes you through the process, comes and checks on you, if you're comfortable with that, gives you tea and electrolytes when you're finished, and sends you on your way, a lighter and more hopeful person.

I've had a series of colonics once before in the 1980s. It was a closed system, using pressure, and had to be performed by a professional. It's a weird relationship to have with a person, let me tell you.

This one is gravity fed, a much gentler system for which you get half-naked, lie back on a heated seat, and covered with a big yummy blanket and a hot water bottle on your tummy, with a tube up your butt that you barely notice once it's in, and you're off to the races.

For about an hour. You can read or entertain yourself pretty much however you like as long as you don't move around too much.

The best part is, you control the horizontal, you control the vertical.

Meaning, you get to turn the whole thing down or off whenever you want, the poop just goes out alongside the tube, the water is nice and warm, and you can pee at will, and all with no problem, beyond some occasional cramping which you can ease by slowing the flow and voiding.

Brave new world, right?

I plan to go back for the recommended minimum of three more sessions, due to their observation that, because the colon is about as long as you are, it takes a few sessions to get what you've got to get out. The more impacted stuff -- sorry if this is TMI -- takes more time to get at and maybe a little careful belly massage which you do yourself.

I don't know exactly how it goes yet, I'm going to find out.

They also put the appropriate probiotics or chlorophyll back into your rectum in the form of what they call an implant, or they'll do a coffee enema, if you bring the right coffee (you can't use just any kind of coffee). These take a little extra time that you have to schedule in advance.

As I understand it, coffee enemas stimulate the vagus nerve, the intermediary between your brain and your GI tract, and probably a lot of other things besides. For more on how important the vagus nerve is to good brain function read the best book ever written on brain health, Datis Kharrazian's Why Isn't My Brain Working?

But that's not all you can do using a high colonic. You can even perform ozone treatment rectally using this set-up if you're fighting parasites.

This is where it gets really interesting.

I have spent most of my adult life fighting infections of one kind or another. According to Dr. Kharrazian and other functional medicine practitioners, many Americans have opportunistic gut infections due to our vaunted Standard American Diet which has destabilized our gut flora and made a home for bugs that really shouldn't be in there in great numbers.

Apparently ozone therapy for treating infections has been around for years, before the advent of antibiotics.

The physician who told me about it, says that it's been around since way back when they used it to decontaminate blood that had been donated.

The reason blood is relevant is that they can do a parasite treatment through your blood which is purportedly much more comprehensive and with many fewer side effects (the [Herxheimer][1] effect) than oral herbal or conventional antibiotic treatment. 

Apparently the die-off during the intravenous ozone treatment somehow teaches the immune system to recognize the infection better? I have to learn a lot more about this.

My question is, if ozone therapy is so good for this stuff, the alternative to which is a host of herbs and supplements that will give you a royal Herxheimer reaction which is bad for your brain, then why the fuck didn't I know about it before?

I'll tell you why. The big guys can't make money off it. And you've got to have a professional licensed to do it for you, which few areas in the country do.

Again, why not? Because the economics of healthcare usually dictate something that is not good for you and eclipse most of what is. (And American prudery does the rest.) 

We probably have it in Marin because people here are prepared to pay out of pocket for something that, if it works as well as they say, should be covered by ANY insurance policy, especially given that it's much cheaper than keeping people sick, requiring many more doctor visits, and selling them a lot of other stuff that will also make them sick with side effects.

I do not cite healthcare economics lightly, this is something we at The Change Project, Inc. know a lot about.

The short version is, if there's a big profit opportunity, we're all in, if there isn't, well screw you. 

Unless we change the incentives in our healthcare system to make people healthier much more quickly and cheaply, we will continue to count the fucks the healthcare industry as a whole does not give about how sick you are, as long as they're getting paid for every time you show up and need help.

Now, I don't know a lot about ozone treatment yet and I'm going to be researching it over the coming months, pros and cons. 

I just have a ready supply of rage available for the instances in which US healthcare has figured out what the solution is ... for US healthcare's wallet and make it difficult for you to get what actually helps you.

Could be this ozone thing is a giant hoax. I hope not. Once I learn more, I'm telling everyone what I know and I hope you will too. Stay tuned or tweet me @JenniferFlower if you have good info on this.

[0]: http://www.cleansemarin.com/
[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jarisch%E2%80%93Herxheimer_reaction